1. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vSQomBMsjwE
Identiy Provider is a service that stores and manages digital identity . company use these services 
to allow thier employees / users to connect with resources they need . 
they provide a way to manage , access , add or remove privileges , while security maintains tight. 
- authentication 
- sso 
- SAML / xml based - pass credential from IDP to service provider. 
- openid - authentication layer for oauth , open std for access delegation that many web service provider use today - 
  amazon webservices . 
  active directory 
  facebook login 
- user try to access the service provider , user is redirected to sso , ask to enter credentials , 
    then sso send saml request to idp , IDP send a saml reply validating identity of user . 
    then sso send saml assertion to service provider ,allowing access . 
   example of sso provider -  
        1. apple 
        2. active directory 
        3. continue with fb 
        4. continue with google
        5. sign in with okta
     

https://docs.spring.io/spring-authorization-server/reference/guides/how-to-social-login.html

spring - ldap with authentication 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wDUChgvYgU
unboundid-ldapsdk
spring-ldap-core 
spring-security-ldap

>>  
spring.io/guides/gs/authenticating-ldap

how to tell to authenticate with ldap ;  authenitcationManagerBuilder , 
use configure (AuthenticationManagerBuilder auth) ; 

>>
what type of authenitcation to use , use configure(HttpSecurity http) ; 
dn - distinguish name 

2. SAML 
What is SAML? A Comprehensive Guide with Examples : ByteMonk

used to exchange authentication-authorization data between two party identity provider , service provider. 
SSO : open id connect (OIDC) / SAML / WSF 
a person want to use the service from the service provider. 
sp redirect user to idp , user authenticate with idp. 
idp redirect backs the user to service provider , with saml assertion ( contain user information and rights) 
sp validates the saml assertion and grants access to resource. 



service provider gets authentication from the identity  provider .
  
to grant authorization to user. 

a identity provider , provides  identity of the user , who is trying to access the service provider. 
send authenitcation data along with user's access right to service . 

open standard protocol for sso , defines how service providers and identity  providers excahnge identity informations . 
saml is xml based std to exchange authentication and authorization based data b/w two parties . 
example - let mutiple web services are there , saml provide sso , authnticate once with identity provider .
identiy provider is where your identiy is established and authenticated . 
it is a service that store and manage didgital service.

example - okta / oauth0 / microsoft / google 
a SAML enabled service provider , is a service provider that supports saml protocol for sso.
it means , user can login to service provider , with credential from trusted identiy provider. 
without having to create a separate account for the service provider. 
some of popular saml enabled service provider example - 
salesforce , microsoft 365 , google workspace , okta. 

saml assertion : an xml file exchanged b/w service provider and idp , to exchange information 
                 about user identity and authorization status . so saml assertion used to implement sso.
                 sign using digital certificates. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ULlJEupV-I


3] oauth vs saml 
oauth 2.0  
authorization only valid for 3rd party access 
while saml is for sso and idenity . 
in corporate environment saml can be used to implement sso . 
you login once to your corporate n/w , to gain access to various services like email , internet applciations , cloud resources . 


oauth - allow 3rd party app need  to access users data or perform action on their behalf , without exposing user credentials or without having 
        full ctrl over users idenitity.
        an extension of oauth - oidc is used for authentication. 
oauth 2.0 + json web token - 
 
usage of saml : sso + idenity federation : govt org , healthcare 




